Add Google Pubsub receiver for OTLP messages - PR1 (#3552)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib: receiver/googlecloudpubsubreceiver/README.md

> # Google Pubsub Receiver

Reviewer: Hi Alexvanboxel, nice to meet you! I'm a member of the Cloud Trace team at Google. 

Cloud Trace supports the single receiver approach, with one caveat. Our public documentation will still instruct customers to create one PubSub topic per telemetry type. The multi-topic approach allows for a more fine-grained authorization model (whereby Trace can only publish to the trace topic, Logging can only publish to the logging topic, and so on). However, this shouldn't affect your implementation. You can still write a single receiver that has the ability to accept all telemetry types. Our public documentation can simply encourage "best" security practices. There would be no inherent technical limitation that would prevent the customer from ignoring our documentation and piping all telemetry types through a single PubSub topic anyways.

We also favor this [CloudEvents](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0.1/spec.md#event-data) approach (as opposed to the OneOf() approach discussed in [PR #157](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/pull/157/files)), implemented as [Pub/Sub attributes](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/reference/rest/v1/PubsubMessage). Our reasoning is that customers should be able to [filter by telemetry type](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/filtering) using message attributes before needing to deserialize the message.

One question I had, though, is your reasoning for using the CloudEvents spec? I'm unfamiliar with the spec, but reading through it, it appears rather thorough. Is the expectation that the receiver (and Trace, the publisher) will be fully compliant with the spec? And if not, and we are only using portions of it for inspiration, then does it make sense to give the PubSub attributes more familiar names such as (just as an example):

- "payload_format":"binaryproto"
- "payload_message":"[opentelemetry.proto.trace.v1.ResourceSpans](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/f3b0ee0861d304f8f3126686ba9b01c106069cb0/opentelemetry/proto/trace/v1/trace.proto#L28)"

Finally, I wanted to thank you for your contributions! Let me know if you have any other questions for the Trace team.

Thanks,
Matt

Author: Hey, Matt: it's maybe worth having a meeting, last time I had a meeting with "Eyamba Ita" there was no mention on OTLP over Pubsub. You can mail me at "alex.vanboxel", at the company I work for "collibra.com". <- email spam bot proof

> ⚠️ This is a community-provided module. It has been developed and extensively tested at Collibra, but it is not officially supported by GCP.
 
This receiver gets OTLP messages from a Google Cloud [Pubsub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub) subscription.

The following configuration options are supported:

* `project` (Required): The Google Cloud Project of the client connects to.
* `subscription` (Required): The subscription name to receive OTLP data from. The subscription name  should be a 
  fully qualified resource name (eg: `projects/otel-project/subscriptions/otlp`).

> * `encoding` (Options): The encoding that will be used to received data from the subscription. This can either be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `encoding` (Optional): The encoding that will be used to received data from the subscription. This can either be
```

  `otlp_proto_trace`, `otlp_proto_metric`, `otlp_proto_log`, or `raw_text` (see `encoding`)

```yaml
receivers:
  googlecloudpubsub:
    project: otel-project
    subscription: projects/otel-project/subscriptions/otlp-logs
    encoding: raw_json
```

## Encoding

You should not need to set the encoding of the subscription as the receiver will try to discover the type of the data

> by looking at the `ce-type` as `ce-datacontenttype` attributes of the message. Only when those attributes are not set 
> the `encoding` field in the configuration should be set. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by looking at the `ce-type` and `ce-datacontenttype` attributes of the message. Only when those attributes are not set 
must the `encoding` field in the configuration be set. 
```

| ce-type] | ce-datacontenttype | encoding | description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| org.opentelemetry.otlp.traces.v1 | application/x-protobuf |  | Decode OTLP trace message |
| org.opentelemetry.otlp.metrics.v1 | application/x-protobuf |  | Decode OTLP metric message |
| org.opentelemetry.otlp.logs.v1 | application/json |  | Decode OTLP log message |
| - | - | otlp_proto_trace | Decode OTLP trace message |
| - | - | otlp_proto_metric | Decode OTLP trace message |
| - | - | otlp_proto_log | Decode OTLP trace message |
| - | - | raw_text | Wrap in an OTLP log message |

When the `encoding` configuration is set, the attributes on the message are ignored.

The receiver can be used for ingesting arbitrary text message on a Pubsub subscription and wrap them in OTLP Log
message, making it a convenient way to ingest log lines from Pubsub.

## Pubsub subscription

> The Google Cloud [Pubsub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub) receiver doesn't automatic create subscriptions, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Google Cloud [Pubsub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub) receiver doesn't automatically create subscriptions, 
```
